README.md, before:

# ToDo App

A simple ToDo App built with React and Vite.

## Introduction

This is a lightweight React project created using Vite. It demonstrates basic CRUD-style functionality for managing a list of tasks. The goal is to keep the codebase minimal and easy to understand, making it a great starting point for beginners who want to learn how to build a React application with Vite.

## Installation & Running the Project

1. **Install dependencies**

    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

2. **Start the development server**

    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```

3. **Open in browser**
   By default, Vite will run on `http://localhost:5173`. Open this URL in your favorite browser to see the app in action.

## Features

- Add new tasks (todos)
- Mark tasks as completed or important
- Assign a category to each task
- Edit task details via a slide-in sidebar
- Delete and restore task

## Known Limitations & Future Improvements

Although this ToDo App covers the core task-management use cases, there are several features that are not yet implemented:

- **Data Persistence**
  All tasks are stored in local state. As a result, any added or edited tasks will be lost when the page is reloaded. In the future, I plan to integrate a backend database to persist data across sessions.

- **Authentication & Authorization**
  There is no user login or account system. Implementing authentication would allow each user to have their own task list stored on a server.

- **Responsiveness**
  The current layout is static and not fully responsive on smaller screens.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you’d like to help improve this project, feel free to:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a new branch (`git checkout -b feature/your-feature`)
3. Make your changes and commit (`git commit -m "Add some feature"`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/your-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

Please make sure to follow standard best practices:

- Write clear, concise commit messages.
- Name your branch descriptively (e.g., `feature/add-delete-task`, `fix/responsive-sidebar`).
- Update/add any relevant documentation or tests.
- Keep PRs focused on a single change or feature request.

Thank you for your interest in contributing!

Commit message:

Implement local storage persistence for todo app data and refactor context usage

README.md, after:

# ToDo App

A simple ToDo App built with React and Vite.

## Introduction

This is a lightweight React project created using Vite. It demonstrates basic CRUD-style functionality for managing a list of tasks. The goal is to keep the codebase minimal and easy to understand, making it a great starting point for beginners who want to learn how to build a React application with Vite.

## Installation & Running the Project

1. **Install dependencies**

    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

2. **Start the development server**

    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```

3. **Open in browser**
   By default, Vite will run on `http://localhost:5173`. Open this URL in your favorite browser to see the app in action.

## Features

- Add new tasks (todos)
- Mark tasks as completed or important
- Assign a category to each task
- Edit task details via a slide-in sidebar
- Delete and restore task
- **Local Data Persistence** - All tasks and app state are automatically saved to localStorage and persist across browser sessions

## Data Persistence

The app now includes automatic local storage persistence for:

- **Todo list**: All tasks with their completion status, importance, and categories
- **Selected category**: Remembers which category filter was last selected
- **Filter state**: Remembers which filter (all, completed, important, etc.) was active
- **Search text**: Preserves search queries between sessions

Data is automatically saved whenever changes are made and restored when the app loads. Tasks and settings will persist even after closing and reopening the browser.

### Clear Persisted Data

If you need to reset the app to its default state, you can clear all persisted data by calling `clearPersistedData()` from the app context (useful for development/testing).

## Known Limitations & Future Improvements

Although this ToDo App covers the core task-management use cases, there are several features that are not yet implemented:

- **Authentication & Authorization**
  There is no user login or account system. Implementing authentication would allow each user to have their own task list stored on a server.

- **Responsiveness**
  The current layout is static and not fully responsive on smaller screens.

- **Cloud Sync**
  While local persistence is implemented, tasks are only stored locally. Adding cloud sync would allow access across multiple devices.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you’d like to help improve this project, feel free to:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a new branch (`git checkout -b feature/your-feature`)
3. Make your changes and commit (`git commit -m "Add some feature"`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/your-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

Please make sure to follow standard best practices:

- Write clear, concise commit messages.
- Name your branch descriptively (e.g., `feature/add-delete-task`, `fix/responsive-sidebar`).
- Update/add any relevant documentation or tests.
- Keep PRs focused on a single change or feature request.

Thank you for your interest in contributing!
